So hopefully I have persuaded you that process is important.
Now let's talk about managing your processes and it's pretty easy really.
If you do not manage your processes, they just fade away,
become brittle and will not be used.
And let's see how we do that.
Before we get into the 10 key processes for your team,
I want to first talk about the following.
How will you manage your processes?
Well here is an easy way.
You want to manage and measure each process,
you want to document and store your processes,
and you want to educate and train your team on the processes as well.
Now let's jump into each one of these very quickly before
we move on to your 10 key processes.
Manage and measure,
you are the process owner who has the ultimate
responsibility for the processes performance,
that is the success in realizing their objectives,
the things the process is trying to do or accomplish,
measured by key process indicators,
and has the authority and ability to make the necessary changes.
Next you want to determine what processes are needed for your team's success.
In this module I am recommending several processes
that help you get started quickly.
You may adopt them or see them as templates to create your own.
For each, determine the outcomes.
This is important so as you build and design your process
you always have the outcomes in mind,
hence you are validating that the process will produce the outcomes expected.
Ensure the team has input and buy in.
You will never likely get total buy in,
some engineers just don't like processes at all.
If you think a process is required and critical,
then it's use is a condition of employment,
no exceptions.
If they know they can break the rules, they will.
Okay, I hope that this is an exception for you,
since getting the majority team buy in is by far the best approach.
But just be prepared, it won't always be easy,
and as a manager you will have to make some hard decisions at times.
Periodic measurement, how good is your process?
Is it used?
Is it beneficial?
I like to keep measurements simple.
Here is how I like to measure our processes,
get the team in a room and just ask them.
Find out what works, keep that stuff.
Find out what doesn't work, remove or change.
And lastly, is there anything we need to add to the process?
This could be done in about an hour or two in most occasions.
What I like to do is to review my processes once a quarter with the team.
We set up a reoccurring quarterly meeting to review each process,
usually it is pretty quick actually since most processes
will not need to change each quarter.
And if changes are required, we either make them,
then we document them or if the changes are major and if we need some analysis,
I might make an assignment to someone or myself and we hold the second
meeting to review the research and update the process accordingly and
then we update the process documentation,
safely store and then educate or train the team as appropriate.
This process for managing our processes is actually pretty simple,
pretty straightforward, and once you do it a few times very,
very easy indeed.
Document and store.
Now that you have determined what processes you need to run your team,
you need to do the following, document each process.
Maybe use a Word document, Visio flowchart,
PowerPoint graphics, or other tools at your disposal.
Don't panic, a process may be just one page of material.
It does not have to be fancy or long, and typically should not,
but it does need to be documented.
You cannot, and I will repeat,
you cannot improve a process or teach others quickly if it is not documented.
Store safely, maybe a user remote drive, the cloud or a document repository.
You could even use a software configuration tool like TFS,
whatever makes it easy for everyone to get to and modify and update.
Enable easy access.
Why have your processes documented if no one can easily find them and read them?
And also important is to easily update them since the
processes may change and evolve over time.
Alright next, be proactive with training your team on the processes.
Don't just assume they'll read them and figure them out.
Educate and train.
Ensure understanding and appreciation of the process and how it
adds value to your team is very important.
If your team does not understand that,
then they will not use it or maybe resist its use.
This is just human nature.
So you want to make sure they understand how the process works,
since you will document it they will know what it is.
Remember a process can be a simple one page checklist.
Don't think a process needs to be 1000 pages.
Do you want to know exactly how long your documentation should be?
Well let me tell you, it depends.
I knew you would like that answer.
But it does,
it needs to be long enough to cover the subject and short
enough to ensure it is understandable, usable,
and provides demonstrateable value to your team.
Next, when to use,
be sure your team understands when your process needs to be
applied or used and in under what circumstances.
Lastly, how it is measured and improved?
Ensure they understand that the process is not set in stone and it is
regularly reviewed and improved as we discussed before. Okay, let's check out the 10 processes in your starter kit.